# BRAT
Bipedal Robotic Articulating Transport
## What is it?
This is a robot which walks like a human, employing bipedal motion. This is done using 8 servo motors controlled using an AVR microcontroller,  the ATmega-32.
## Reference Material
`BRAT-Report.pdf` is the report my team and I prepared for this project. This was our final year project for Bachelor of Engineering. All hardware and software implementation details can be found here. Since you are here, you would most likely be looking for the logic running on the microcontroller which controls this robot, for which I would refer you to Section 4.4 of this report, where the complete algorithm is described in the best possible way an engineer can!
## Of time lapses and memories
It has been over 3 years since this code was finalized and over 4 years since we started on this project. There has been no development since. On one hand time erases some memories (remembering how we got everything to work) and on the other it makes me laugh at my older immaturish implementation of this solution! Nevertheless, I hope that this can be a good starting point for you to build your project idea on and take our work forward.
## The Code and How to use it
It is important to remember that this code was not written with generality in mind. It was written by a bachelor's student with the intent of getting a robot to walk. It has subsequently been completely refactored to make it a more extensible, robust program. However, the "logic" which controls the motors remains the same in this solution, which means that this code is over-fitted to our specific robot. You would need to check the initial angles (so that the robot "stands" straight) and also the amount by which the motors move for a step. The more problematic part which you would have to check and probably also change is the actual walking loop. This is because specific hardware limitations were factored in at various times. Section 4.4 in the report would be a good guide for make these chenges.
## How you can help
As mentioned in the above section, the code is less generalized that I would like. You can help in making it more so. There are also several places where enhancements are possible. The first one being adding external control to at least start and stop the robot. Adding sensors and some self-balancing logic would be really interesting as well (maybe modifying the algorithm used in stabilising Segway style robots)? All this would require a program which can handle something like threading - not on an actual level but rather on a conceptual level.
